Adverb:
Lec 1:
An adverb is a word, or a set of words, that modifies verbs, adjectives, and other adverbs.
adverb clauses and adverb phrases, adverb clauses and adverb phrases are clauses and phrases that modify the verbs and adjectives and other adverbs in a sentence;
adverbs of manner - how the action is being performed. 
Thankfully, carefully, handily, quickly, coldly, Hotly, resentfully, earnestly, nicely, tirelessly, etc;
Adverbs of degree - how much : explain or indicate or express the amount or the amount of force, which is being performed
completely, nearly, entirely less, mildly, most, thoroughly, somewhat, excessively, much etc
adverbs of place or direction - where or in what direction. they like deictic information, distance, direction, or space or the location where the action is being performed.
across, over, under, in, out, through, backward, there, around, here, sideways, upstairs, in the park, in the field, in the place, etc.
adverbs of time or frequency. - the time and how often the frequency
always, never, often, eventually, now, frequently, occasionally, once, forever, seldom, or any day, Sunday, Monday, whatever point of time or day of you refer to 10 AM 12
sentence adverbs - there are some adverbs which come at the beginning of a sentence and they take an entire sentence in its scope. And modifies entire sentence. So, they are called sentence adverbs,
hopefully, apparently, certainly, occur in the beginning of the sentence
conjunctive adverbs  - they work as a linker. And linked the clauses
They connect independent clauses and phrases. they also represent the transition of ideas, and they also indicate a relationship.
consequently, or however, or nonetheless,

Lec 2:
Tense:
auxiliaries are markers of tense in our languages
there is no marking for gender in English.
indefinite or habitual aspect in a sentence has no marking in present tense like - i live in Indore
in past tense, we do not see any agreement marking as well as any aspect marking. We only see tense marking in past tense.
we shall meet tomorrow‟. This is also an example of future indefinite.
Indefinite tenses, commonly known as simple tenses (present, past, and future), describe actions, habits, or facts without stating whether they are completed or ongoing.
Continuous / Progressive:
Perfect/perfective : 
I have reached
I had reached
I will have reached
It is about the particular state of an event which is complete, it is perfect.
Perfect continuous- 
Have been playing
Has been playing
Had been playing
aspect marker in a sentence only when you have a verb in, when you do not have a verb, there is no aspect.
I was eating" (past continuous), the tense is past and the aspect is continuous.

Regular and irregular verb form:
the regular pattern is „-ed‟,
irregular pattern, „-ed‟ does not work
when a new word comes in, it is called suppletion, but together they are all called irregular patterns. Like go and went
lec 3:
Active Passive:
active verbs and passive verbs.
the third form of the verb is called past participle.

Transitive/ Intransitive veb:
transitive verbs mandatorily take a noun phrase in object position and when we talk about passives, we can form passives only of transitive verbs. Intransitive verbs cannot be recast in passive form.

if you go ask a question what, with the verb, whatever answer you get is the direct object.
Raju gave what a book (direct object) and save is transitive verb

we can form passives only of transitive verbs. Intransitive verbs cannot be recast in passive form. For example, Ravi runs very fast. (runs –intransitive verb – doesn’t need object to complete)

lec 4:
Adjective:
we are talking about the ending sounds of a particular word that denotes and helps you understand and identify adjective in a sentence.
Able: comfortable,
al, -  viral, educational; Gradual, critical, technical

India, Indian; America, American; Mexico, Mexican; urban, so these are adjectives.

-Ar, like popular, spectacular, vulgar,
-Ent like competent, patient, intelligent, silent, violent, 
-ful, so shameful, powerful, harmful, thoughtful, beautiful,
-ic or -ical like synthetic, problematic, athletic, energetic, magical, scientific,
-ine and they become adjective like feminine, masculine, bovine, canine equine.
ile, like fragile, agile, docile, fertile, virile
-ive, so selective, predictive, informative, native, talkative,
less, so harmless, careless, endless, homeless, senseless,
-ous, precious, delicious, notorious, cautious, dangerous, 
some, so tiresome, awesome, handsome, lonesome, wholesome

dinner table. Music class, 2 nounds but one is acting like adjective
study room or cricket player.

adjectives precede nouns. 
those adjectives which come before a noun are called attributive adjectives.
But not all adjectives come only before noun, but some come after the verb as well. Eg : "this person looks suspicious". Suspicious is an adjective, it follows the verb, it comes after the verb; it is predicative adjective. "this place seems unsafe". So, unsafe is an adjective, but it follows the verb seem. "she is beautiful". Beautiful is an adjective, follows the verb "is" and still modifies the subject of the sentence, "she". 
attributive adjectives precede the noun, they come before the noun. Predicative adjectives follow the verb and occur in the predicate,

compound nouns; where two nouns are put together,
we have two adjectives here, two modifiers here: "an expensive music system"

"quite an expensive item"
a rather painful decision.
quite, rather, they have unique ordering of the constituents
lec 5 - degree adverbs
degree adverbs are used before adjectives, verbs or other adverbs to give information about the extent or degree of something.
I really hate the smell of cigars.
Eg: completely fair, quite, rather, slightly, too, totally, very much, very, etc.
before an adjective or adverb, we use 'very' (not before veb) to refer to a high degree and 'too' when we mean more than enough, or more than what is wanted or needed. So, 'too' has a higher degree than that of 'very'.
in negative sentences, we can sometimes use too, to mean roughly the same as very
I am not too bothered about who fails or it is also okay to say, I am not very bothered about who fails.

we do not use very before verbs, but we can use very much before some verbs to emphasize how we feel about things. For example, I very much agree with your decision. So here, agree is a verb and what I am using is very much and not very.
there are certain verbs like agree, doubt, fear, hope, like, want, admire, appreciate, enjoy and regret that allows the use of very much before it,

we can use very much or much, but not very before the last four verbs, that is, admire, appreciate, enjoy, regret.

I was very disturbed to hear the news. It is not right to say I was very much disturbed to hear the news. Similarly, it is very disappointing. Proper grammatical sentence. But when I say it is very much disappointing, then it is ungrammatical. 

We can use very, but not very much before participle adjectives. (those adjectives that usually end with "ing and ed" can be classified in participle adjectives.) 
We can see very much and not very before a past participle, which is part of a passive. For example, the new highway was very much needed. So, you www.onlinedegree.iitm.ac.in/ should not be saying the new highway was very needed.


we use extremely and very with gradable adjectives (we can have different levels of that quality. ) and absolutely and completely with non gradable adjectives. (eg finished)
extremely effective, extremely difficult extremely hard. So, this kind of word combination is called collocation.
the movie was absolutely successful, it is better you say the movie was hugely successful.
it is, simply hard you could say it is extremely hard.

it is simply awful, simply terrible because simply goes with non-gradable adjectives.

quite has two meanings. 
One is to talk about a particular degree but not very. It was quite okay. Which means it was fairly okay. The second use is to focus or to emphasize on a large degree or when you want to say it is a lot. I was quite satisfied with the result.

Lec 6 –

comment adverbs, viewpoint adverbs and focus adverbs.
comment adverbs- It indicates likelihood. apparently, certainly, clearly, definitely. 
obviously, presumably, undoubtedly and a lot of them are '-ly' type of adverbs.
astonishingly, frankly, generally, honestly, to be honest, interestingly, luckily, naturally, in my opinion, personally, sadly, seriously, surprisingly, unbelievably, bravely, carelessly, foolishly, generously, kindly, rightly, stupidly, wisely, wrongly,
comment adverbs can occur anywhere in the sentence that is in the initial position, anywhere in the middle of the sentence or also at the end of the sentence.
when they come in the beginning, we put a comma and then we begin the rest of the sentence.
viewpoint adverbs -  Like when we say biologically, chemically, environmentally, ideologically, logically, morally, outwardly, politically, technically, visually. visibly, these are viewpoint adverbs
we use these to indicate perspectives, the perspective of the speaker and for the purpose of clarity.
focus adverbs – only, even


lec 3 : 
•	Agent: The initiator or doer of an action, typically animate and volitional (e.g., "John ate the apple").
•	Theme/Patient: The entity undergoing the action, moving, or changing state (e.g., "John ate the apple").
•	Recipient: A specific type of goal that receives a theme, often the indirect object (e.g., "I gave her the book").
•	Instrument: The tool or means used to perform an action (e.g., "She cut it with a knife"). 



Type of adverb. All type
Attributive Adjectives / Adjunctive
Attributive adjectives are placed directly before the noun they modify. A red car

Predicative Adjectives
Predicative adjectives are placed after a linking verb – the car is red

imaginative, innovative, and indicative are primarily classified as Descriptive Adjectives (or Adjectives of Quality),
Relative prnoun – who whom…relattion
my wife, Dorothy, enjoys musical theater,” “Dorothy” is the appositive, with the antecedent “my wife.”
